CISC/CMPE 457 - Assignment 4

Due December Thursday, December 6 at 11:59PM

You are to implement LZW image compression with predictive encoding.
Your implementation is to be efficient.  There are lots of Python LZW
examples on the net.  Do not copy those.  Write your own code.

1. Try the sample code.  Create a compressed image, cortex.cmp, as follows:

     python main.py c images/cortex.pnm cortex.cmp

   Uncompress the same file as follows:

     python main.py u cortex.cmp uncompressed.pnm

   Then images/cortex.pnm and uncompressed.pnm should be exactly the
   same file.  Note that the skeleton code in main.py does not
   actually compress anything.

   You can view a pnm file with, for example:

     python netpbm.py images/cortex.pnm

   If viewing, you'll need to install the Python 'matplotlib' library.

2. Implement LZW compression with predictive encoding in the
   compress() function.  You should predictively encode each channel
   of a pixel separately, using the corresponding channel from the
   previous pixel.  Use LZW to compress the *difference* between the
   true channel value and the predicted channel value.  Note that the
   image might have any number of channels per pixel.  Do not allow
   your dictionary to exceed 65536 entries; this allows you to encode
   each index in two bytes.

   The code will be marked for efficiency and compression ratio.  You
   may use a Python dictionary for the LZW dictionary.

3. Implement LZW decompression with predictive decoding in the
   uncompress() function.  A correct implementation will return
   exactly the same file if you first compress the file, then
   uncompress it.

4. In a 'README.txt' file, create a table of compression results
   with one line for each PNM file in the 'images' directory, and
   one column for each of

      filename
      compression time
      decompression time
      compression ratio
      compression ratio of zipped image

   where you determine the last column using the zipped images that
   are provided.

   Note, just for interest, the compressed sizes of cortex.png
   (lossless) and cortex.jpg (lossy).


To hand in:

  Create a directory named 'a3' that contains:

     - main.py

     - README.txt: This file includes the compression results.  Also,
       at the TOP of the file, provide your name(s), student
       number(s), and email(s), as well as any comments to the TA.

  Zip the directory and submit it by email to jstewart@cs.queensu.ca .
